---
layout: post
title: "[LeetCode 146] LRU Cache"
comments: true
category: Leetcode

---

### Question 
[link](https://oj.leetcode.com/problems/lru-cache/)

<div class="question-content bg-color bg-img font-color">
            <p class="font-color"></p><p class="font-color">
Design and implement a data structure for Least Recently Used (LRU) cache. It should support the following operations: <code>get</code> and <code>set</code>.
</p>

<p class="font-color">
<code>get(key)</code> - Get the value (will always be positive) of the key if the key exists in the cache, otherwise return -1.<br>
<code>set(key, value)</code> - Set or insert the value if the key is not already present. When the cache reached its capacity, it should invalidate the least recently used item before inserting a new item.
</p><p class="font-color"></p>
          </div>

### Stats
<table border="2">
	<tr>
		<td>Adjusted Difficulty</td>
		<td bgcolor="red">4</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Time to use</td>
		<td bgcolor="red">Very difficult</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Ratings/Color = 1(white) 2(lime) 3(yellow) 4/5(red)

### Analysis

__This is a difficult question__, I can't write the solution easily even after a month.

### Solution

The solution is to use a Doubly-linked-list and a HashMap. Doing this allows O(1) search, remove and insert. A very nice and sophisticated data structure example, and very high frequency in interviews. 

__2 important things to note while coding__:

1. We need 2 helper methods: removeNode() and setNodeAsHead(). 

    Because we reuse both methods for get() and set() methods. 

1. Initialization of LRU 

    We need 5 variables: capacity, current size(optional but good to have), hashmap, head, tail. 

1. Initialization of DoubleLinkedListNode

    This is easy, but __do not forget about both key and value variable__. We must use DoubleLinkedListNode.key when we want to delete tail. 

### Code

__Updated on July 1st, 2014__.

This question tests your ability to write some DS by yourself, eg. DoubleLinkedList. 

    public class LRUCache {

        int size;
        int capacity;

        DoubleLinkedList head;
        DoubleLinkedList tail;
        HashMap<Integer, DoubleLinkedList> map;

        public LRUCache(int capacity) {
            this.size = 0;
            this.capacity = capacity;
            head = null;
            tail = null;
            map = new HashMap<Integer, DoubleLinkedList>();
        }

        public void remove(DoubleLinkedList node) {
            if (node == head && node == tail) {
                head = null;
                tail = null;
            } else if (node == head) {
                head.next.prev = null;
                head = head.next;
            } else if (node == tail) {
                tail.prev.next = null;
                tail = tail.prev;
            } else {
                node.prev.next = node.next;
                node.next.prev = node.prev;
            }
            node.prev = null;
            node.next = null;
        }

        public void setHead(DoubleLinkedList node) {
            node.next = head;
            node.prev = null;
            if (head != null) {
                head.prev = node;
            }

            head = node;
            if (tail == null) {
                tail = node;
            }
        }

        public int get(int key) {
            if (!map.containsKey(key)) {
                // if key is not found
                return -1;
            } else {
                // if key is found
                DoubleLinkedList target = map.get(key);
                remove(target);
                setHead(target);
                return head.val;
            }
        }

        public void set(int key, int value) {
            if (this.get(key) != -1) {
                // key exist before, just replace the old value
                DoubleLinkedList old = map.get(key);
                old.val = value;
            } else {
                // this is a new key-value pair, insert it
                DoubleLinkedList newHead = new DoubleLinkedList(key, value);
                map.put(key, newHead);
                setHead(newHead);
                if (size == capacity) {
                    // delete tail
                    map.remove(tail.key);
                    remove(tail);
                } else {
                    size++;
                }
            }
        }

        class DoubleLinkedList {
            int key;
            int val;
            DoubleLinkedList prev;
            DoubleLinkedList next;
            public DoubleLinkedList(int k, int v) {
                this.key = k;
                this.val = v;
            }
        }
    }
